>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, OCTOBER 12...
A DALLAS NURSE IS DIAGNOSED WITH
EBOLA AFTER TREATING THE
LIBERIAN MAN WHO DIED OF THE
DISEASE.
THE LATEST ON THE WAR AGAINST
ISIS.
TONIGHT, TURKEY'S ROLE.
IT'S ON THE BORDER WITH SYRIA
AND IRAQ, AND ON THE FENCE ABOUT
GETTING INVOLVED.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
JEFFREY BROWN INTERVIEWS JAMES
EARL JONES ABOUT HIS RETURN TO
BROADWAY.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
A MAJOR DEVELOPMENT TODAY IN THE
EBOLA SCARE.
A DALLAS HOSPITAL EMPLOYEE,
BELIEVED TO BE A NURSE, HAS
CONTRACTED EBOLA AFTER TREATING
THOMAS DUNCAN, THE 42-YEAR-OLD
LIBERIAN MAN WHO DAYS AGO DIED
OF THE DISEASE.
IT'S THE FIRST TIME EBOLA HAS
BEEN TRANSMITTED IN THE UNITED
STATES.
DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE TODAY,
THE HEAD OF THE CENTERS FOR
DISEASE CONTROL CALLED THE
DEVELOPMENT "DEEPLY CONCERNING"
AND WARNED THAT OTHER HEALTH
CARE WORKERS AT THE SAME
HOSPITAL MIGHT ALSO HAVE BEEN
INFECTED BECAUSE OF WHAT HE
CALLED A BREACH OF PROTOCOL
TREATING DUNCAN.
>> UNFORTUNATELY IT IS POSSIBLE
THAT WE WILL SEE ADDITIONAL
CASES OF EBOLA.
THIS IS BECAUSE THE HEALTH CARE
WORKERS WHO CARED FOR THIS
INDIVIDUAL MAY HAD HAVE A BREACH
OF THE SAME NATURE AS THE
INDIVIDUAL WHO APPEARS TO HAVE A
PRELIMINARY POSITIVE TEST.
THAT RISK IS IN THE 48 PEOPLE
WHO ARE BEING MONITORED.
THEY'RE ALL BEING TESTED DAILY.
NONE OF THEM HAVE THE SYMPTOMS
OR FEVER AND IN ANY OTHER HEALTH
CARE WORKERS WHO MAY HAVE BEEN
EXPOSED TO THIS PATIENT WHILE HE
WAS BEING CARED FOR.
>> Sreenivasan: 17 ADDITIONAL
HOSPITAL EMPLOYEES ARE NOW BEING
MONITORED FOR SYMPTOMS OF THE
DISEASE IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER
48 WHO HAD CONTACT WITH DUNCAN.
STATE OFFICIALS SAID THE
INFECTED HOSPITAL WORKER WAS
WEARING A GOWN, GLOVES, A MASK
AND OTHER PROTECTIVE GEAR DURING
WHAT FRIEDEN SAID WERE EXTENSIVE
CONTACTS WITH DUNCAN, BUT SHE
BECAME INFECTED ANYWAY.
>> THE CARE OF EBOLA CAN BE DONE
SAFELY BUT IT'S HARD TO DO IT
SAFELY.
IT REQUIRES METICULOUS AND
SCRUPULOUS ATTENTION TO
INFECTION CONTROL AND EVEN A
SINGLE INADVERTENT INNOCENT SLIP
CAN RESULT IN CONTAMINATION.
>> Sreenivasan: TOP HEALTH
OFFICIALS HAVE SAID A KEY TO
DEFEATING EBOLA IS STOPPING IT
AT ITS SOURCE-- WEST AFRICA.
BUT YESTERDAY, THE DIRECTOR OF
THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
ALLERGY AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES
DESCRIBED THE SITUATION THERE
THIS WAY:
FOR MORE ABOUT THE SITUATION IN
WEST AFRICA, WHERE MORE THAN
4,000 PEOPLE HAVE DIED OF THE
DISEASE, WE ARE JOINED NOW VIA
SKYPE BY DREW HINSHAW OF THE
WALL STREET JOURNAL.
HE RECENTLY WAS IN SIERRA LEONE
AND LIBERIA AND JOINS US TONIGHT
FROM GHANA.
>> THROUGHOUT THE WEEK WE HAVE
HEARD HEALTH EXPERTS FROM EUROPE
AND IN THE UNITED STATES SAY
THAT THE PROBLEM IS MUCH WORSE
IN AFRICA, THAT THERE AREN'T
ENOUGH HEALTHCARE WORKERS TO
DEAL WITH THIS.
WHAT IS LIFE LIKE ON THE STREETS
WHERE YOU HAVE BEEN VISITING?
>> IT IS TERRIBLE, PARTICULARLY
IN MONROVIA, LIBERIA'S CAPITAL.
I WAS THERE TWO WEEKS AND EVERY
TIME I LEFT THE HOTEL, I SAW
SOME SIGN OF THE TRAGEDY.
YOU WOULD SEE A BODY IN THE
ROAD, OR A SICK PERSON
SURROUNDED BAY CROWD.
YOU DO SEE MORE RESPONSE TOO,
YOU SEE AMBULANCES BLARING UP
AND DOWN THE STREET.
YOU SEE BODY TEAMS GOING TO
COLLECT BODIES.
UNFORTUNATELY IT IS JUST THE
RESPONSE STILL SEEMS JUST SO FAR
BEHIND THE DISEASE.
>> DREW, YOU HAVE BEEN TO THIS
REGION MULTIPLE TIMES NOW.
GIVE US A SENSE OF PERSPECTIVE
ON THE SCALE OF HOW BAD IT IS.
>> IT IS INCREDIBLE.
WHEN I FIRST WENT THERE IN EARLY
AUGUST, YOU REALLY HAVE TO WORK
TO FIND PEOPLE, VICTIMS, NOW,
THEY FIND YOU.
I MEAN, THE CASES ARE COMING
EVERY THREE-WEEK, THE
DIFFERENCES ARE EXTRAORDINARY.
EVERYWHERE YOU GO YOU SEE THIS
MASSIVE INCREASE IN EBOLA CASES.
EVERY THREE WEEKS YOU CAN SIT
DOWN WITH A CALCULATOR AND PLOT
HOW BAD, HOW QUICKLY THIS
BECOMES SORT OF A HUGE ONCE IN A
GENERATION EVENT, BOTH IN WEST
AFRICA AND GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH.
>> THE SCARE IS INCREASING
EXTREMELY FAST AND EXTREMELY
HARD TO SEE HOW THE WORLD WILL
CATCH UP WITH IT IF IT DOESN'T
COME SOON.
>> DOES THAT MEAN THE NUMBER OF
DOCTORS HAS TO DOUBLE EVERY
THREE WEEKS TO DEAL WITH THE
PATIENTS?
>> EXACTLY.
JUST MENTIONED WE NEED A 24
INCREASE IN WHAT WE ARE DOING
RIGHT NOW.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, I AM NOT AN
EPIDEMIOLOGIST BUT JUST BEING A
LIBERIAN, AND SIERRA LEONE, HE
IS RIGHT, THE NUMBER OF SICK
PEOPLE, THE NUMBER OF FAMILIES
THAT HAVE BEEN TOTALLY WIPED
OUT, NEIGHBORHOODS THAT ARE
FALLEN WITH PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
INFECTED IS JUST A HUGE INCREASE
BETWEEN WHAT IT WAS LIKE IN
AUGUST AND WHAT IT IS LIKE NOW,
AND YEAH, THE NUMBER OF DOCTORS
AND NURSES WE IMMEDIATE ON THE
GROUND IS JUST SO VAST AND THE
GAP BETWEEN WHAT WE NEED AND
WHAT WE HAVE IS ONLY GETTING
BIGGER.
>> AT THIS POINT THEY ARE TRYING
TO CONVINCE PEOPLE TO SORT OF
STAY AT HOME AND POSSIBLY DIE
THERE INSTEAD OF COMING TO A
HOSPITAL?
>> THERE ARE NO GOOD ANSWERS
RIGHT NOW, THERE IS!
DEBATE, THE CDC THINKS IT IS A
REALLY HORRIBLE IDEA TO
BASICALLY GIVE PEOPLE GLOVES AND
PAINKILLERS AND SAY, STAY WITH
YOUR FAMILY MEMBERS WHILE YOU
HAVE EBOLA, ON THE OTHER HAND
UNICEF SAYS WHAT ARE YOU GOING
TO DO?
PEOPLE ARE STUCK IN THEIR HOUSE
WITH THEIR DYING RELATIVES.
THE RULES ARE THAT YOU SHOULDN'T
TOUCH THEM, YOU SHOULD LEAVE
THEM IN A BEDROOM ESSENTIALLY TO
DIE, BUT THAT IS JUST NOT A
TENABLE OPTION FOR MOST PEOPLE
WHEN THEIR LOVED ONE IS DYING TO
WET TO A POINT WHERE COMPASSION
OVERRULES SELF-PRESERVATION AND
THAT'S EXACTLY HOW EBOLA HAS
BEEN SPREADING HOUSE TO HOUSE
AND UNLESS THERE IS A HUGE
INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF
HOSPITAL BEDS AVAILABLE, IT WILL
CONTINUE TO HAPPEN.
>> AND I THINK THE JOURNAL HAD
THIS MORNING JUST THE AMOUNT OF
WATER, FOR EXAMPLE, PER PATIENT
THAT IT TAKES TO TRY TO CONTAIN
THIS.
>> YOU NEED THIS MASSIVE AMOUNT
OF LOGISTICS, BLEACH, WATER, YOU
KNOW, HUNDREDS OF HEAD TO TOE
SUITS EVERY DAY, FACE MASKS,
GLOVES, JUST A HUGE AMOUNT OF
LOGISTICS YOU NEED TO OPERATE
THESE CLINICS AND THESE ARE IN
COUNTRIES, IN SIERRA LEONE
AIRPORT IS SO FAR FROM THE
CAPITAL YOU CAN REALLY ONLY GET
TO IT BY BOAT.
THESE COUNTRIES ARE JUST NOT SET
UP TO HAVE A HUGE INCREASE
LOGISTICS LIKE THAT.
>> WHAT IS THE HAPPENING TO THE
SENSE OF, I GUESS, COMFORT IN
THE PEOPLE, THEY MUST KNOW THE
ENTIRE WORLD IS LOOKING AT THEM
IN THIS WAY AND AS THE ECONOMY
SLOWS DOWN ARE PEOPLE LOOKING
FOR EXIT STRATEGIES?
>> PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO LEAVE
AND PEOPLE ARE EXTREMELY EDGY.
EVEN WHEN PEOPLE ACCEPT THE
SCIENCE OF EBOLA, THEY OBVIOUSLY
ARE SCARED AND WHEN PEOPLE DON'T
THEY ARE CONFUSED AND PANICKED,
IT IS EXTREMELY EDGY.
>> JUST THE OTHER DAY I SAW A
GIANT MOB, I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT
WAS GOING ON BUT RIGHT OUTSIDE
OF AN EBOLA CLINIC, GIANT MOB
APPEARED TO BE, I DON'T KNOW IF
BEATING SOMEONE BUT WE TURNED
THE CAR AROUND AND LEFT,
EVERYWHERE YOU GO YOU JUST
SORT OF SEE ANGRY MOBS UPSET
ABOUT SICK PEOPLE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OR BODIES THAT
HAVE NOT BEEN COLLECTED, PEOPLE
ARE VERY, VERY FRIGHTENED.
>> DREW HINSHAW OF THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: IN IRAQ TODAY,
ISIS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR
A SERIES OF CAR BOMBINGS
NORTHEAST OF BAGHDAD THAT KILLED
AT LEAST 58 SECURITY FORCES AND
CITIZENS AND INJURED DOZENS
MORE.
IN A SEPARATE INCIDENT NEAR
RAMADI, WEST OF THE CAPITAL, A
ROADSIDE BOMB KILLED A TOP
POLICE OFFICIAL.
EARLIER, ISIS FIGHTERS CAPTURED
PARTS OF THAT CITY AND TOOK
CONTROL OF FALLUJAH, WHERE MORE
THAN 140 U.S. TROOPS DIED DURING
FIGHTING TEN YEARS AGO.
IN SYRIA, WARPLANES FROM THE
U.S.-LED COALITION ONCE AGAIN
STRUCK ISIS TARGETS IN THE
BESIEGED BORDER CITY OF KOBANI.
DESPITE REPEATED BOMBING, ISIS
FORCES ARE ATTACKING THE CITY
FROM THREE SIDES AND HAVE
CAPTURED PORTIONS OF IT.
WE'LL HAVE MORE IN A MOMENT.
ELSEWHERE IN THE MIDDLE EAST
TODAY: AT AN INTERNATIONAL
CONFERENCE IN CAIRO, SECRETARY
OF STATE JOHN KERRY ANNOUNCED
THAT THE UNITED STATES WILL SEND
MORE THAN $200 MILLION TO HELP
REBUILD THE GAZA STRIP FOLLOWING
HAMAS'S WAR WITH ISRAEL.
>> THIS MONEY WILL, WE HOPE,
HELP PROMOTE SECURITY AND
STABILITY AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRESIDENT OF
THE PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY,
MAHMOUD ABBAS, HAS SAID $4
BILLION IS NEEDED FOR THE
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT.
QATAR TODAY PLEDGED $1 BILLION.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, A MICHIGAN
TODDLER HAS DIED OF ENTEROVIRUS
68, THE DISEASE THAT HAS
INFECTED MORE THAN 500 CHILDREN
IN 46 STATES AND THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
THE VICTIM WAS IDENTIFIED AS A
21-MONTH-OLD GIRL.
LAST WEEK, A FOUR-YEAR-OLD NEW
JERSEY BOY DIED OF THE DISEASE.
FOUR OTHERS INFECTED WITH
ENTEROVIRUS HAVE ALSO DIED, BUT
THE CDC SAYS IT IS UNCLEAR WHAT
ROLE THE VIRUS PLAYED IN THEIR
DEATHS.
IN ST. LOUIS, DEMONSTRATIONS ARE
CONTINUING FOR A THIRD DAY OVER
THE AUGUST SHOOTING DEATH OF
MICHAEL BROWN, THE UNARMED BLACK
TEEN WHO WAS KILLED BY A WHITE
POLICE OFFICER.
THE FOUR-DAY EVENT, DUBBED"
FERGUSON OCTOBER", HAS
ATTRACTED A FEW THOUSAND
PROTESTERS.
OVERNIGHT, POLICE USED TEAR GAS
TO TRY TO DISPERSE DEMONSTRATORS
STAGING A SIT-IN.
17 PEOPLE WERE ARRESTED WHEN
THEY IGNORED POLICE WARNINGS TO
LEAVE.
AND FACEBOOK IS APPARENTLY
HAVING A DIFFICULT TIME KEEPING
UP WITH AT LEAST ONE VERY HIP,
VERY SENIOR CITIZEN.
ANNA STOEHR OF MINNESOTA HAD TO
LIE ABOUT HER AGE TO OPEN HER
FACEBOOK ACCOUNT.
THAT'S BECAUSE THE EARLIEST
POSSIBLE BIRTH DATE LISTED ON
FACEBOOK IS 1905.
ANNA STOEHR WAS BORN IN 1900.
TODAY, SHE CELEBRATED TURNING
114.
AND NOW MORE OF OUR CONTINUING
INTERVIEW SERIES, THE WAR ON
ISIS.
OUR FOCUS TONIGHT: TURKEY'S
ROLE.
IT'S A NATO PARTNER, BUT SO FAR
IT'S BEEN RELUCTANT TO GET
INVOLVED.
TO HELP EXPLAIN WHY, WE ARE
JOINED NOW FROM WASHINGTON BY
GEOFF DYER THE U.S. FOREIGN
POLICY CORRESPONDENT OF THE
FINANCIAL TIMES.
>> SO, JEFF, SOMETIMES THESE
PICTURES THAT COME OUT, YOU CAN
SEE TURKISH TANKS LITERALLY JUST
LOOKING OVER THE BORDER WHERE
SOME OF THE FIGHTING IS
HAPPENING.
WHAT IS KEEPING TURKEY ON THE
SIDELINES.
>> WELL THERE ARE A NUMBER OF
REASONS FOR THAT, ONE THE
TURKISH GOVERNMENT SAYS IT HAS A
DIFFERENT OUTLOOK TO WHAT THEIR
MAIN OBJECTIVE SHOULD BE IN THE
CAMPAIGN, THE U.S. IS FOCUSING
JUST ON ISIS, THE TURKS WOULD
LIKE THE US U.S. AND COALITION
IN GENERAL TO ALSO TAKE THE
FIGHT TO THE ASSAD REGIME AND
NOT JUST A CAMPAIGN THAT FOCUSES
ON ISIS.
THE TURKS ARE ALSO TO SOME
EXTENT AMBIVALENT ABOUT THE
POLITICAL GROUPS THAT HAVE BEEN
DOMINANT IN TERMS OF A ABOUT A
ANY THAT ARE SIR IDEA KURDS THAT
HAVE LINKS TO A MILITANT GROUP,
KURDISH MILITANT GROUP WHERE THE
TURKISH GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN AT
WAR IN THREE DECADES THAT IS
SOME OF THE CONCERNS AND ALSO A
BROADER SENSE OF A SLIPPERY
SLOPE FOR THE TURKISH GOVERNMENT
IF THEY WERE TO INTERVENE HERE,
DO THEY SEND IN THEIR OWN TROOPS
IF THEY MANAGE TO PUSH ISIS
TROOPS, INTERVENE IN OTHER TOWNS
IF THIS HAPPENS? IF ISIS GOES
AWAY AND COME BACK IN A FEW
WEEKS TIME WHAT DOES THAT MEAN
FOR THE TURKS? ARE THEY
INVOLVED AGAIN? SO ALL OF THOSE
SLIPPERY SLOPE ARGUMENTS
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS BEEN
GRAPPLING WITH THE TURKS ARE
GRAPPLING WITH THEM AS WELL.
>> WHAT SORT OF COALITION WOULD
MAKE TURKEY GET INTO THIS FIGHT
AND PUT BOOTS ON THE GROUND?
>> WELL, THE TURKS HAVE BEEN
VERY AGGRESSIVE IN THE CAMPAIGN
AGAINST ASSAD, RE, IN THE
CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE ASSAD
REGIME FOR A LAST COUPLE OF
YEARS, THEY HAVE HAD A LOT OF
EMPHASIS ON THAT AND THAT'S
WHERE THE BIG STRATEGIC GOAL IS
TO TRY TO PUSH THE U.S. IN THE
DIRECTION OF NOT JUST AGAINST
ISIS BUT THE ASSAD REGIME AND
PUTTING MORE RESOURCES INTO
OPPOSITION FORCES THAT CAN FIGHT
THE ASSAD REGIME AND IF THAT
HAPPENED YOU MAY SEE A TURKISH
GOVERNMENT MORE WILLING TO USE
SOME SORT OF MILITARY ASSETS AND
EVEN INTERVENE MORE DIRECTLY IN
THE CONFLICT.
>> ONE OF THE CONCERNS RIGHT NOW
HAS BEEN THIS HMM FREEWAY OR
PIPELINE OF SUPPLY IN TERMS OF
HUMANS COMING FROM, SAY, GREAT
BRITAIN OR THE WEST AND WANTING
TO JOIN FORCES OF ISIS, IT SEEMS
A KEY WAY STATION IS TURKEY, IS
TURKEY STOPPING THAT FLOW?
>> WELL, THAT'S A VERY HARD
QUESTION TO ANSWER.
I MEAN, YOU G
REPORTS ON THAT FRONT.
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS
THAT HAS BEEN ONE OF THE MAIN
ROOTS, IN THE TURKISH GOVERNMENT
SAYS IT HAS NOT ONLY ON THE
FIGHTERS BUT THE FINANCIAL
ASPECT OF IT, IT IS A VERY OPEN
AND POROUS BORDER, SMUG KING IN
ROOTS BETWEEN SYRIA AND TURKEY
THAT HAVE BEEN AROUND FOR
CENTURIES, IT IS NOT EASY TO
JUST CLAMP DOWN OVERNIGHT.
>> GEOFF DYER AND THE FINANCIAL
TIMES JOINING US FROM
WASHINGTON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
TONIGHT, A VISIT WITH JAMES EARL
JONES.
HE'S BACK ON BROADWAY, BUT
DURING A RECENT INTERVIEW WITH
NEWSHOUR'S JEFFREY BROWN, HE
CONFIDED THAT THE WORDS HE
SPEAKS DON'T ALWAYS COME EASILY
TO HIM.
>> I WAS TO STAND THERE, SAY THE
TEN NUMBERS.
FOUR, FIVE...
AND THEN FALL OVER-- FALL FLAT
OVER.
THAT WAS EXITING.
AND THE KIDS LIKED THAT, TOO.
THAT'S THE ONE THING THEY
REMEMBER.
NINE, TEN...
>> Reporter: IN 1969 JAMES EARL
JONES WAS THE FIRST CELEBRITY
GUEST TO APPEAR ON SESAME
STREET.
SINCE THEN HE HAS LENT HIS VOICE
TO SOME OF THE MOST RECOGNIZABLE
CHARACTERS IN POPULAR CULTURE.
>> HE TOLD ME YOU KILLED HIM.
>> NO, I AM YOUR FATHER.
>> I'M NOT WHO I USED TO BE.
>> REMEMBER WHO YOU ARE.
YOU ARE MY SON AND THE ONE TRUE
KING.
>> Reporter: BEYOND THE VOICE,
OF COURSE, HAS BEEN THE ACTOR.
AND AT 83 YEARS OLD HE'S STILL
GOING STRONG, NOW BACK ON
BROADWAY IN A REVIVAL OF THE
CLASSIC 1936 SCREWBALL COMEDY"
YOU CAN'T TAKE IT WITH YOU".
>> Reporter: YOU SPEND MUCH OF
THIS PLAY SMILING FROM EAR TO
EAR.
>> YOU CAUGHT ME.
>> Reporter: I DID.
I KNOW IT'S THE CHARACTER BUT
YOU LOOK LIKE YOU'RE JUST HAVING
A GREAT TIME.
>> THAT HAPPENS TO BE TRUE.
BUT ALSO IT HAPPENS TO BE A
CHOICE THAT THE DIRECTOR AND I
MADE.
WELL, YOU KNOW, IT'S THE FIRST
TIME I'VE EVER BEEN IN A COMEDY.
>> Reporter: THE FIRST TIME, I
MEAN, WHY DID IT TAKE YOU SO
LONG TO GET INTO A COMEDY?
>> WELL, I DON'T KNOW.
I GUESS I THOUGHT IF YOU... IF
YOU TOOK ACTING SERIOUSLY, YOU
HAD TO TAKE ACTING AS SERIOUS,
YOU KNOW, AND SERIOUS STUFF.
>> ACCORDING TO OUR RECORDS, MR.
VANDERHOFF, YOU HAVE NEVER PAID
AN INCOME TAX.
>> THAT'S RIGHT
>> WHY NOT?
>> I DON'T BELIEVE IN IT.
>> Reporter: IN "YOU CAN'T TAKE
IT WITH YOU" JONES PLAYS
GRANDPA, THE PATRIARCH OF AN
UNUSUALLY HAPPY AND WACKY FAMILY
IN DEPRESSION-ERA NEW YORK WHOSE
MEMBERS LIVE LIFE AS THEY
PLEASE-- NOT PAYING INCOME
TAXES, NOT WORKING, SIMPLY
BECAUSE THEY DON'T FEEL LIKE IT.
ONE REVIEW SAID JONES "INFUSES
EVERY WORD WITH A STEADY GRACE".
BUT JONES TOLD US FOR AS LONG AS
HE CAN REMEMBER HE'S BEEN
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH WORDS, A MAN
WITH DIFFICULTY EXPRESSING
HIMSELF.
HOW CAN YOU THINK OF YOURSELF AS
INARTICULATE?
YOU DON'T...
>> OH...
>> Reporter: YOU... YOU THINK OF
YOURSELF THAT WAY?
>> UH-HUH.
>> Reporter: REALLY?
>> OH, AT PARTIES, YEAH.
I'M--I'M GOOD AT LISTENING.
THAT I LEARNED WELL.
AND KEEPING UP IS... COULD BE...
CAN BE A CHORE.
>> Reporter: IT BEGAN EARLY,
DURING WHAT HE'S DESCRIBED AS A
DIFFICULT CHILDHOOD.
HIS FATHER ABANDONED THE FAMILY
AND HE WAS RAISED BY PRIMARILY
BY HIS GRANDPARENTS, FIRST IN
MISSISSIPPI AND THEN ON A FARM
IN MICHIGAN.
AND HE DEVELOPED A SEVERE
STUTTER.
>> PEOPLE WOULD COME TO THE
HOUSE AND THERE'D BE
INTRODUCTIONS MADE AND I
COULDN'T INTRODUCE MYSELF.
>> Reporter: IT WAS THAT BAD?
>> YEAH.
>> Reporter: IT'S KIND OF
REMARK...
>> I FOUND IT WAS OH, SO GOOD
SOMETIMES BECAUSE... SILENCE
ISN'T BAD.
IT'S GOOD TO LISTEN.
AND I LEARNED TO LISTEN.
>> Reporter: JONES SAYS IT WAS,
IN PART, THAT VERY THING, THAT
DROVE HIM TOWARD ACTING.
A HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER HAD HELPED
HIM OVERCOME HIS STUTTER BY
HAVING HIM RECITE POETRY AT THE
FRONT OF THE CLASS.
IN THE EARLY 1950s, JONES HAD
JUST GOTTEN OUT OF THE ARMY AND
DECIDED TO GIVE NEW YORK THEATRE
A TRY.
>> AND I DIDN'T KNOW I WAS
LANDING IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
REVOLUTION THAT INVOLVED THEATER
BEING CHANGED TO EVERY MAN.
I JUST CAME AND WALKED INTO IT
LIKE A DUMMY OUTTA THE ARMY.
AND THIS STUFF IS GOING ON
AROUND ME.
SUDDENLY, I BEGAN TO PUT IT
TOGETHER.
AND IT'S QUITE WONDERFUL.
>> Reporter: IT WAS A TIME WHEN
BROADWAY EMBRACED STORIES ABOUT
REGULAR PEOPLE LIKE WILLY LOMAN,
THE PROTAGONIST IN ARTHUR
MILLER'S "A DEATH OF A SALESMAN"
AND STANLEY KOWALSKI IN "A
STREET CAR NAMED DESIRE",
FAMOUSLY PERFORMED BY MARLON
BRANDO.
BUT IN JONES'S VERY FIRST SMALL
ROLE ON BROADWAY IN 1958, IN
"SUNRISE AT CAMPOBELLO," A PLAY
BASED ON PRESIDENT FRANKLIN
ROOSEVELT'S STRUGGLE WITH POLIO,
AN OLD PROBLEM CAME BACK TO
HAUNT HIM.
>> I WAS PLAYING A HOUSEBOY AND
I HAD A SCENE.
I CAME INTO ELEANOR ROOSEVELT.
I SAID, "MRS. ROOSEVELT, SUPPER
IS SERVED."
WELL, I GOT AS FAR AS "MRS."
WE'RE OFTEN HUNG ON THE M WORD,
THE MAMA WORD OR WHATEVER YOU
WANNA CALL IT, US STUTTERERS.
I THINK THE AUDIENCE KNEW WHAT
WAS HAPPENING.
IT WAS... IT WAS A PLAY.
THEY BOUGHT TICKETS.
AND I'M UP THERE ACTING.
AND I CAN'T TALK.
MY LINE WAS SIMPLE, "MRS.
ROOSEVELT, SUPPER IS SERVED."
AND I EXITED.
AND THAT'S THE LAST TIME IT'S
EVER HAPPENED TO ME.
>> Reporter: IT MAY SURPRISE YOU
THAT JONES, WITH UNDOUBTEDLY ONE
OF THE MOST RECOGNIZABLE VOICES
IN THE WORLD...
>> THIS IS CNN.
>> Reporter: ...SAYS HE STILL
STRUGGLES WITH STUTTER TO THIS
DAY.
BUT IT HASN'T HELD HIM BACK ON
STAGE, FILM, OR TELEVISION.
JONES HAS WON THREE EMMY AWARDS,
AN HONORARY ACADEMY AWARD AND
TWO TONY AWARDS FOR HIS STAGE
PERFORMANCES IN THE "GREAT WHITE
HOPE" ABOUT A BLACK BOXER, AND
FOR AUGUST WILSON'S PLAY"
FENCES" ABOUT THE AFRICAN
AMERICAN EXPERIENCE AND RACE
RELATIONS.
>> DON'T YOU TRY AND GO THROUGH
LIFE WORRIED IF SOMEONE HAD
LIKED YOU OR NOT.
YOU BEST MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE
DOING RIGHT BY YOU.
>> Reporter: JONES HAD SEVERAL
OTHER NOTABLE ROLES INCLUDING
OTHELLO ON BROADWAY...
>> PEOPLE WILL COME, RAY.
>> Reporter: ...AND IN THE
MODERN FILM CLASSIC "FIELD OF
DREAMS."
JONES TOLD US THAT EARLY ON, HIS
ROLES WERE LIMITED BECAUSE OF
HIS RACE.
>> I'M GOING TO BUST IT WIDE
OPEN AND THE WE ARE ALL GOING TO
GO OUT FOR A CHAMPAGNE LUNCH.
>> Reporter: BUT DESPITE BEING
ONE OF THE MOST PROMINENT
AFRICAN AMERICAN ACTORS OF HIS
GENERATION, JONES HAS NEVER
DEFINED HIS CAREER IN RACIAL
TERMS.
>> I NEVER THOUGHT THERE WAS A
THING... SUCH A THING AS BLACK
THEATER OR AFRICAN AMERICAN
THEATER.
>> Reporter: RACE WASN'T EVEN A
CONSIDERATION IN THE CURRENT
PRODUCTION OF "YOU CAN'T TAKE IT
WITH YOU".
ALL THE OTHER ACTORS PLAYING
MEMBERS OF HIS FAMILY ARE WHITE.
BUT THE 1936 VERSION OF THE PLAY
DID HAVE SOME RACIAL REFERENCES,
ONE OF WHICH MADE JONES
UNCOMFORTABLE.
>> MY QUESTIONS WERE, FOR
INSTANCE, OKAY... THESE
CHARACTERS, THESE... THESE
WRITERS WROTE IN TWO BLACK
PEOPLE, IT'S... TWO PEOPLE WHO
WERE SERVANTS.
WHEN THE GIRL WHO PLAYS MY
DAUGHTER, PENNY, SAYS, "OH,
THEY'RE SO CUTE.
THEY'RE A LITTLE, LIKE, PORGY
AND BESS."
>> Reporter: REALLY?"
PORGY AND BESS", THE OPERA
FIRST PERFORMED IN 1935,
PORTRAYED AFRICAN AMERICANS IN
WAYS THAT SOME-- THEN AND NOW--
FELT WERE RACIST STEREOTYPES.
>> I-I RECOMMENDED WE DON'T SAY
THAT LINE.
'CAUSE WHY BEG THE QUESTION?
>> Reporter: THE LINE WAS
ULTIMATELY TAKEN OUT.
IRONICALLY, AFTER ALL HIS
SUCCESS ON STAGE AND SCREEN IN
MORE THAN 200 ROLES, JONES IS
PROBABLY STILL BEST KNOWN FOR
BEING THE VOICE OF DARTH VADER
IN THE STAR WARS TRILOGY.
AND THE FIRST MOVIE, RELEASED IN
1977, MAY HAVE BEEN HIS EASIEST
GIG EVER.
>> Reporter: "STAR WARS" WAS
ALMOST, LIKE, FOR YOU... IT
WASN'T A BIG DEAL, RIGHT?
I MEAN, YOU RECORDED IT FAIRLY
QUICKLY, I UNDERSTAND, AND...
>> OH, IN TWO-AND-A-HALF HOURS.
YEAH.
>> Reporter: TWO-AND-A-HALF
HOURS.
AND YET IT BECAME ONE OF THE
MOST WELL-KNOWN VOICES...
>> BECAUSE THE OVERALL...
>> Reporter: IN THE WORLD.
>> THE OVERALL THEME OF THAT
PROJECT MEANT SOMETHING TO
EVERYBODY.
>> Reporter: JONES SAYS THE
ROLES HE'S MOST PROUD OF,
THOUGH, ARE ONES IN WHICH HE
PLAYED CHARACTERS WHO, LIKE
HIMSELF, STRUGGLE WITH LANGUAGE.
MEN LIKE LENNIE IN "OF MICE AND
MEN" AND HOKE IN "DRIVING MISS
DAISY."
>> SURE I DO.
DON'T WORRY NONE ABOUT IT.
I HOLD ON NO MATTER WHAT WAY SHE
RUN ME.
WHEN I WAS NOTHING BUT A LITTLE
BOY ON THE FARM BUTT NAKED
WRESTLE HOGS ON THE GROUND AT
KILLING TIME AND NO HOG GET AWAY
FROM ME YET.
VERY SIMPLE PEOPLE, PEOPLE WHO
DON'T ARTICULATE MUCH, PEOPLE
LIKE ME, WHO DON'T HAVE
LANGUAGE, WHO ARE INARTICULATE.
I-I LIKE HOKE IN "DRIVING MISS
DAISY."
HOKE INVENTS A LANGUAGE OF HIS
OWN.
HE DOESN'T KNOW HOW TO USE
ENGLISH AS YOU AND I ARE DOING
RIGHT NOW.
BUT HE HAS A WAY OF TALKING THAT
IS QUITE POETIC.
>> Sreenivasan: JAMES EARL
JONES' CAREER HAS SPANNED SIX
DECADES.
WHICH ROLE IS THE MOST
MEMORABLE?
SOUND OFF AT
FACEBOOK.COM/NEWSHOUR.
THIS COMING TUESDAY, A NEW
FRONTLINE INVESTIGATION EXAMINES
HOW THE WIDESPREAD USE OF
ANTIBIOTICS ON FARM ANIMALS MAY
BE LIMITING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
ANTIBIOTICS TO TREAT HUMAN
DISEASES.
IN THIS CLIP, "FRONTLINE"
CORRESPONDENT DAVID HOFFMAN OF
THE WASHINGTON POST SETS OUT ON
A JOURNEY ACROSS THE UNITED
STATES TO EXPLORE THE POTENTIAL
LINK.
>> FOR THE PAST TWO YEARS, I
HAVE BEEN INVESTIGATING THE
EMERGENCE AND SPREAD OF
NIGHTMARE BACTERIA.
SUPER BUGS THAT ARE INCREASINGLY
RESISTANT TO THE STRONGEST
ANTIBIOTICS.
THE BACTERIA ARE FIGHTING BACK
AND THEY ARE DEFEATING THE DRUG?
>> CORRECT.
>> I HAVE BEEN TRACKING THE
PHENOMENON THROUGH HOSPITALS
AROUND THE COUNTRY, WHERE
DOCTORS HAVE BEEN DEALING WITH
PATIENTS INFECTED BY THESE SUPER
BUGS WHICH GO BY NAMES LIKE KPC
AND MDM 1.
>> ALL THESE ARE MEAN THAT THE
BACTERIA IS RESISTANT TO THAT
ANTIBIOTIC.
>> I FOUND OUTBREAKS THAT HAVE
PARALYZED SOME OF OUR BEST
HOSPITALS.
>> NO MATTER WHAT WE DID, THE
BACTERIA STILL, IT WAS STILL
SPREADING.
>> MORE THAN 20,000 PEOPLE A
YEAR ARE DYING FROM THESE
INFECTIONS, AND AS MANY AS
2 MILLION GET SICK THEM FROM --
FROM THEM.
WHAT HAS BECOME APPARENT THESE
NIGHTMARE INFECTIONS ARE BEING
FUELED BY THE OVER USE OF
ANTIBIOTICS, CREATING BUGS WE
CAN'T KILL.
BUT THE MORE I LOOKED INTO IT,
IS MORE I SAW THERE WAS ANOTHER
DIMENSION TO THE STORY.
>> IT TURNED OUT MOST
ANTIBIOTICS AREN'T EVEN USED BY
HUMANS.
>> THEY ARE USED ON FARMS.
>> SOME LATE NEWS: THIS
AFTERNOON THE CDC CONFIRMED ITS
PRELIMINARY FINDING THAT DALLAS
HOSPITAL WORKER DID CONTRACT
EBOLA AFTER WHAT IS BEING
DESCRIBED AS A BREACH OF
PROTOCOL TREATING A MAN WHO DIED
OF THE DISEASE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS ORDERED AN
INQUIRY.
EARLIER MARTIN DEMPSEY SAYS ISIS
FIGHTERS ARE BLENDING INTO SUNNI
COMMUNITIES AND CITIES NEAR
BAGHDAD AND PREDICTED THEY WILL
FIRE AT TARGETS IN THE CAPITAL.
HE SAID AN OUTRIGHT ASSAULT ON
BAGHDAD REMAINS UNLIKELY.
JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW.
I AM HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.